The first night, then, I went to sleep on the sand, a thousand miles from
any human habitation. I was more isolated than a shipwrecked sailor on a raft
in the middle of the ocean. Thus you can imagine my amazement, at sunrise,
when I was awakened by an odd little voice. It said:
"If you please—draw me a sheep!"
"What!"
"Draw me a sheep!"
I jumped to my feet, completely thunderstruck. I blinked my eyes hard. I
looked carefully all around me. And I saw a most extraordinary small person,
who stood there examining me with great seriousness. Here you may see the
best portrait that, later, I was able to make of him. But my drawing is certainly
very much less charming than its model.
That, however, is not my fault. The grown-ups discouraged me in my
painter's career when I was six years old, and I never learned to draw
anything, except boas from the outside and boas from the inside.
Now I stared at this sudden apparition with my eyes fairly starting out of
my head in astonishment. Remember, I had crashed in the desert a thousand
miles from any inhabited region. And yet my little man seemed neither to be
straying uncertainly among the sands, nor to be fainting from fatigue or
hunger or thirst or fear. Nothing about him gave any suggestion of a child lost
in the middle of the desert, a thousand miles from any human habitation.
When at last I was able to speak, I said to him:
"But—what are you doing here?"
And in answer he repeated, very slowly, as if he were speaking of a matter
of great consequence:
"If you please—draw me a sheep ..."
When a mystery is too overpowering, one dare not disobey. Absurd as it
might seem to me, a thousand miles from any human habitation and in danger
of death, I took out of my pocket a sheet of paper and my fountain-pen. But
then I remembered how my studies had been concentrated on geography,
history, arithmetic and grammar, and I told the little chap (a little crossly, too)
that I did not know how to draw. He answered me:
"That doesn't matter. Draw me a sheep ..."
But I had never drawn a sheep. So I drew for him one of the two pictures I
had drawn so often. It was that of the boa constrictor from the outside. And I
was astounded to hear the little fellow greet it with,"No, no, no! I do not 
want an elephant inside a boa constrictor. A boa
constrictor is a very dangerous creature, and an elephant is very cumbersome.
Where I live, everything is very small. What I need is a sheep. Draw me asheep."
So then I made a drawing.It took me a long time to learn where he came from. 
The little prince, who
asked me so many questions, never seemed to hear the ones I asked him. It
was from words dropped by chance that, little by little, everything was
revealed to me.
The first time he saw my airplane, for instance (I shall not draw my
airplane; that would be much too complicated for me), he asked me:
"What is that object?"
"That is not an object. It flies. It is an airplane. It is my airplane." And I
was proud to have him learn that I could fly. He cried out, then:
"What! You dropped down from the sky?" "Yes," I answered, modestly.
"Oh! That is funny!"
And the little prince broke into a lovely peal of laughter, which irritated me
very much. I like my misfortunes to be taken seriously.
Then he added:
"So you, too, come from the sky! Which is your planet?"
At that moment I caught a gleam of light in the impenetrable mystery of
his presence; and I demanded, abruptly:
"Do you come from another planet?"
But he did not reply. He tossed his head gently, without taking his eyes
from my plane: "It is true that on that you can't have come from very far away
..."
And he sank into a reverie, which lasted a long time. Then, taking my
sheep out of his pocket, he buried himself in the contemplation of his treasure.
You can imagine how my curiosity was aroused by this half-confidence
about the "other planets." I made a great effort, therefore, to find out more on
this subject."My little man, where do you come from? What is this 'where I live,' of
which you speak? Where do you want to take your sheep?"
After a reflective silence he answered:
"The thing that is so good about the box you have given me is that at night
he can use it as his house."
"That is so. And if you are good I will give you a string, too, so that you
can tie him during the day, and a post to tie him to."
But the little prince seemed shocked by this offer: "Tie him! What a queer
idea!"
"But if you don't tie him," I said, "he will wander off somewhere, and get
lost."
My friend broke into another peal of laughter:
"But where do you think he would go?"
"Anywhere. Straight ahead of him."
Then the little prince said, earnestly:
"That doesn't matter. Where I live, everything is so small!"
And, with perhaps a hint of sadness, he added:
"Straight ahead of him, nobody can go very far . . ."
